---
title: 'A look back at 2023'
publishedAt: 2023-12-30
description: 'A look back at 2023'
slug: '2023'
isPublish: false
---

I would say this year has been kind of tough. I finished my college in March 28, 2023 and am now unemployed because I know that my college didn't teach me a lot about technology. This has left many of my friends who graduated unemployed and seeking jobs in other fields like HR.

## My Top 3 Good Decision This year:

<div class="text-lg">

- Limiting my gaming time by deleting 20 games from my phone and laptop <a href="#footnote-1">[1]</a>.
- Committing to learning frameworks <a href="#footnote-2">[2]</a>

</div>

## My Top 3 Mistakes this year:

<div class="text-lg">

- Not doing enough problem solving
- Trying to memorize all the attributes and properties in HTML/CSS instead of focusing on practical application.

</div>

## My Goals for 2024

<div class="text-lg">

- Contribute to open source projects.
- Take commitments more seriously.
- Get into systems programming.
- Learn about Design Patterns
- Solve problems actively on platforms like LeetCode.
- Learning Full Stack Development
- Explore databases.
- Get used to debugging and testing

</div>

<p id="footnote-1">[1] Back when I was still in college, I used to spend a lot of time gaming, playing like Valorant, Apex, Watch Dogs, Tom Clancy, Osu!, and over 15 other games that I couldn't remember. I've already committed to myself that in 2024, I will delete all the games and only keep Osu!</p>
<p id="footnote-2">[2] In my past college, they didn't teach us how to use JavaScript properly, nor did they teach us frameworks, leaving us confused about JavaScript types, scopes, and other fundamental concepts. They skipped the basics and went straight to teaching advanced level on PHP, MySQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Java, and Python. Consequently, I had to learn the fundamental concepts by myself through resources like YouTube, as the provided books were already at an advanced level.</p>
