---
title: 'About this Site'
publishedAt: 2024-06-09
description: 'How I create this site'
slug: 'about-this-site'
isPublish: false
---

Hello, you might be wondering how I built this. I'm using `Astro Frameworks` + `TypeScript` with `Tailwind` and `Solid JS`, and this blog was created using `markdown` and `Custom CSS`.

And personally, I wanted to create this kind of website apart from my portfolio, to prevent any code breaking in my portfolio. I also wanted to create something more in other frameworks like Astro. I'm still new to these frameworks.

## How long do I spent to build this website?

Building this website was an intensive but rewarding process. I spent almost 5 days on it, starting from learning about Astro Framework. During this time, I watched numerous YouTube tutorials and read various articles to understand how Astro works and what packages would be best to use with it. The learning phase was crucial to ensure that I could effectively implement Astro along with TypeScript, Tailwind CSS, Solid JS, and Markdown for blog posts.

## Challenges and Learning

Throughout the creation of this website, I encountered several difficulties that provided valuable learning experiences.

### 1. Understanding New Frameworks

Adopting Astro Framework and Solid JS was initially challenging due to their unique concepts and syntax. I spent a significant amount of time reading documentation, watching tutorials, and experimenting with small projects to get comfortable with these tools. This hands-on approach was crucial in overcoming the learning curve.

### 2. Practicing with TypeScript

One of my goals for this project was to practice with TypeScript. Having primarily used JavaScript in the most of time, I wanted to familiarize myself with TypeScript's static typing system. This meant I needed to define the types for my props and state upfront, which added an initial layer of complexity.

### 3. Integrating Blog with Markdown Content

Creating a blog with Markdown came with its own set of challenges. When I originally started using Markdown for my blog entries, I didn't understand why the styles weren't applying correctly. I did some research and found that in order to render Markdown, I needed to add custom CSS. To solve this, I created a `post.css` file in the `styles directory` specifically for styling Markdown content.

## Future Improvements

I intend to add more tools and utilities. I'll continue to work on this website as a side project. I can implement innovative features, test out new technology, and hone my skills by working on it constantly.
