---
title: 'My Learning Progress'
publishedAt: 2024-08-07
description: 'From Jun 2024 to Aug 2024'
slug: 'my-progress'
isPublish: false
---

### It's already August 2024. So, what is my progress now?

## Learning Experiences

- **Started Learning Back-End Development**

  - Began studying **Node.js**, **Express.js**, and **PostgreSQL** to enhance back-end development skills.

- **Completed Courses**
  - [**Bash Scripting: Learn Shell Scripting**](https://zerotomastery.io/courses/learn-bash-scripting/) - Gained skills in shell scripting to automate tasks and manage systems more effectively.
  - [**SEO Bootcamp: Learn Search Engine Optimization**](https://zerotomastery.io/courses/seo-content-optimization/) - Acquired knowledge in search engine optimization to improve website visibility and content optimization.

## Challenges Faced

- **Self-Taught Learning Difficulties**
  - Realized the challenges of being a **self-taught learner** during the process.

## Career Progress

- **Received Job Offers**

  - Received **3 email offers** from different startups.
  - Each offer required completing a coding test before advancing to the interview stage, with a possibility of additional technical tests.

- **Coding Test**

  - Even though I already prepared before the test, my mind went blank during the test, which hindered initial progress.
  - Spent **15 minutes** attempting to recall concepts and another **30 minutes** working on solutions.
  - Leaving me with only **45 minutes left** to code in the **1 hour and 30-minute test**.

- **Lessons Learned**
  - **Stay Calm**: Avoid stress and approach coding tests as if you're working on a project.
  - **Don't Overthink**: Try not to overthink during the test. Focus on applying what you know.
  - **Post-Test Reflection**: After the test, revisiting the questions helped me solve them effectively within an hour. This experience highlighted the importance of maintaining a calm mindset.

## What Will I Do to Improve My Problem-Solving Skills?

1. **Work on Projects**

   - Build tools or applications based on my ideas.
   - Aim to develop projects that could enhance my resume.

2. **Focus on Consistency**

   - As an independent student, maintaining consistency is crucial.
   - Regular practice is necessary for skill development.

3. **Continuous Improvement**
   - Constantly improve my skills to better position myself for new career prospects.

## Future Goals

- **Long-Term Vision**

  - **Manage Time Effectively**: Learn more while maintaining a healthy balance and making improvements in time management.
  - **Build and Refine Portfolio**: Continue developing and showcasing projects to demonstrate my skills

- **Jobs**
  - Actively apply for job opportunities to find a role that aligns with career goals and offers growth potential.

## Conclusion

The first eight months of 2024 have been a period of significant growth and learning. I’ve gained valuable experience and insights. I’m excited to continue this journey, building on the progress made and striving for further excellence.

Despite having **ADHD**, that occasionally makes independent study difficult, I learn more quickly through **auditory methods** than through textbook reading. I've been able to modify my learning tactics for greater effectiveness because to this self-awareness.

<br />

---

Happy Wednesday!!!<br />
Don't forget to drink Coffee...
